Notes on Papers Published since 2013

Will Gantt
9/23/16

Brief descriptions of references for my review paper of computational CRM
inference techniques published since the time of Jeff Thompson's writing.
I will not end up using all of the papers described here. Only some of them
can be found in this directory.

Ren2013.pdf

  Paper Title: Multiple alignment-free sequence comparison
  Notes:       This paper looks like it could conceivably come in handy
               down the road when I'm looking at alternatives to multiple
               alignment, but it doesn't offer a method of *inferring*
               candidate CRMs. Rather, it proposes a method of sequence
               comparison that eschews multiple alignment, using CRM data
               as a test case.
  Included?:   No.

Lowe2015.pdf

  Paper Title: Genomic approaches for understanding the genetics of
               complex disease
  Notes:       This is another paper that looks like it might be helpful
               down the road, but not for the current project. The author
               seems to be most interested in the relationship between 
               regulatory activity and phenotype variation, specifically
               as it relates to "disease mechanisms." 
  Included?:   No.

Rouault2014.pdf

  Paper Title: Imogene: identification of motifs and cis-regulatory modules
               underlying gene co-regulation
  Notes:       Definitely something to include in the paper. Imogene is an
               "ensemble of statistical tools" that the authors trained on
               mammalian and fly CRM data, specifically looking at
               homologous modules across those species. Once trained, it
               can then predict CRMs that have a similar regulatory
               function on a genome-wide scale.
  Included?:   Yes.

Yang2014.pdf

  Paper Title: cisMEP: an integrated repository of genomic epigenetic
               profiles and cis-regulatory modules in Drosophilia
  Notes:       cis-regulatory Module Epigenetic Profile database (cisMEP)
               provides a means of evaluating the prediction confidence
               of CRM inference methods. I am not exactly clear how it does
               this, but their geneeral mission here is to "integrate...
               computationally identified CRMs with genomic epigenetic
               profile data." (I take it cisMEP serves as a sort of cross-
               reference or sanity check for CRM inference tools?). Anyway,
               it might be worth a mention in the paper. Then again, it
               might not.
  Included?:   Yes.

Wang2015.pdf

  Paper Title: Loregic: A Method to Characterize the Cooperative Logic of
               Regulatory Factors
  Notes:       Loregic is a tool that uses two-input, one-output logic
               gates to describe "regulatory circuits" --- that is, groups
               of regulatory elements that work together to perform some
               function. Superficially, this sounds relevant, but the
               trouble is that its focus is genome-wide; it's interested in
               how *different* TFs regulating *different* genes work in
               sequence to modify gene expression. Not worth including.
  Included?    No.

Pundhir2015.pdf [NOT DONE]

  Paper Title: Emerging applications of read profiles towards the
               functional annotation of the genome
  Notes:       Probably not relevant to anything I'm doing. The paper is
               concerned with things called "read profiles"
  Included?    No.

Roccaro2013.pdf [NOT DONE]

  Paper Title: Identification of functional cis-regulatory elements by
               sequential enrichment from a randomized synthetic DNA
               library
  Notes:       
