1/30/17
Will Gantt

Project Description [From the "Chapter 2" writeup]:

The goal of my project is to use learning classifier systems (LCSs) 
to measure the impact of different variables on regional and global 
crop yields. LCSs are systems that use evolutionary computation to 
evolve a set of rules for classifying inputs based on a specified 
attribute. In an effective LCS, these rules will indicate what features 
of the inputs are most relevant in determining how they should be 
classified. By constructing an LCS for yield data from 1975 to 2007 
(collected by Erik Nelson), I will identify the environmental and 
economic factors that most significantly influence changes in crop 
yields. 


The following is my ideal timeline for my honors project.

Implementing & Testing:
-----------------------

Mar. 6:
	Have a first version of the LCS up and running.

Mar 13  (Spring break):
	Run the LCS on Erik's data and document preliminary results.
	Debug as needed, and repeat tests.

Mar. 27 (end of spring break):

	Write two variations on the original version of the LCS.

	Compare the performance and output of the variations on Erik's
	data. Document the results and try to explain them.

	If the results suggest that one or more versions of the LCS
	might be improved in a particular way, implement the improvements
	and test again.


Writing:
--------

Apr. 3:
	Write the Results section: This section should compare the results
	of the different versions with one another, and with Erik and Clare's
	findings as well. Submit to Clare for revision.

Apr. 10:
	Write the Discussion and Conclusion sections: This should attempt to 
	explain the results, as well as the shortcomings of the system.
	Submit to Clare for revision.

Apr. 17:
	Write the System Description section. This should include descriptions
	of both the original implementation and the variations, and should also
	lay out the experimental set-up. Submit to Clare for revision.

Apr. 24:
	Rewrite the Introduction section and write the abstract. This will 
	largely be a revision of the "Chapter 2" I submitted first semester,
	with some added background information. Submit to Clare for revision.

May 1:
	Make any final revisions necessary. Polish up the document and the code.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I believe the CS department's policy concerning honors project submission deadlines
would put the due date at May 14th. Thus, I have allowed myself a two-week
buffer to accommodate the snags and delays may arise. Of course, Hofstadter's
Law states that

	"It takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account
	 Hofstadter's Law."

and Parkinson's Law that

	"Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion."

So even though I fully expect that there will be more difficulties along the way 
and that I will be working right up to the deadline, I have put down these dates
as a guideline mostly for myself. That said, do let me know if you think any of
this is overly optimistic.

Will
