Week of 6/20/16 (Week 4)

Summary:  This week had two very distinct halves to it: the half before
	  speaking with Clare, Victoria, and Craig about my project and
	  the half after it. I don't think I understood how significantly
	  this lab's approach to CRM inference differs from methods
	  conceived by other teams. Consequently, I spent a fair amount
	  of time reading papers on those methods, which was, in
	  retrospect, not the best way I could have used my time. I feel
	  now that I have a much clearer idea of what my short-term goals
	  are. That said, I'm sure I will have lots of questions about
	  details of implementation as I progress.

Goals:    Next week, I want to accomplish the following:
	    (1) Finish implementing the alternative motif representation
	        schema I began developing on Thursday.
	    (2) Implement an elementary evaluation function that evolves
	        both a bitstring that represents the set of constituent
	        motifs that describe the best-conserved CRMs, as well as
	        the strings of bases of those motifs. (This will involve
	        merging the two schemata I have now.)
	    (3) (Contingent on (2), among other things) Use actual PDGFRB
	        CRM data to test the effectiveness of the evaluation
	        function.
Monday
	- Finished reading "Assessing Computational Methods of
	  Cis-regulatory Module Prediction." I read the paper in order to
	  get a better understanding of the work that has been done on CRM
	  prediction beyond GAMMI and GAMI-CRM.
	- Up until today, I had been writing all of my functions in the
	  evaluation function file. I decided that it was time to modularize
	  a bit and so moved all of the functions I have written *except*
	  the evaluation function into a separate source and header file. I
	  then modified the makefile to compile it along with the other
	  Genesis files.
	- Attempted to migrate the Genesis files (and the code I have
	  added to them) to an Eclipse project, but ran into trouble
	  with the makefile. Will try to resolve this later.
	- Helped move furniture around for the high school students.
	- Wrote functions to implant motifs at random locations in a
	  specified sequence of bases.

Tuesday
	- Made improvements to functions that implant motifs at random
	  locations in a specified sequence of bases.
	- Listened to Clare give a presentation on the goal of our work,
	  broadly speaking.
	- Participated in a roundtable discussion in which all of us
	  fellowship students presented our one-sentence descriptions
	  of our projects, as well as our "elevator speeches"
	- Brainstormed about how I am going to implement code to find
	  CRMs in a single sequence of bases given a set of motifs. 

Wednesday
	- Continued brainstorming begun at the end of the day yesterday.
	  Currently looking for ways to really distill the problem to its
	  essence first, before getting into the hairy details of dealing
	  with actual data.
	- Talked with Victoria about the intersection between our projects,
	  the intersection between them, and how we might help each other
	- Did a literature review of relevant CRM prediction methods,
	  including MCAST, MSCAN, and EEL. I also took a second look at
	  the original GAMI-CRM paper. 
	- Attended biology department lunch and student research
	  presentations.
	- Updated project descriptions
	- Listened to Stephen Houser speak about Git

Thursday
	- Briefly brushed up on the uses of and differences between the
	  stack and the heap in C.
	- Updated .bashrc file 
	- After looking at some of the modified postprocessor output files
	  that Victoria made for her project, I realized that it would
	  probably make sense to have an alternative, simpler way of
	  representing motifs than the way I have been using this past week.
	  Since I'm really just interested in how to assemble motifs into
	  modules, I realized that I don't have to worry about the bases
	  themselves (for right now, at least). All I care about is:
	      1) The occurrences of a motif in a given sequence
	      2) The score of that motif at that location
	      3) The set of all sequences where the motif occurs
	  As far as I can tell, this is the data that will end up being
	  manipulated when determining modules. Thus, I started implementing
	  a different representation scheme and corresponding functions
	  based exclusively on these elements (no strings).
	- Spoke with Clare, Craig, and Victoria, and got more direction on 
          my project.
	- Attended CS talks
	- Continued work on new representation schema

Friday
	- Continued work on new representation schema. Specifically,
	  functions for generating random motifs.
	- Redid some curations that Craig said needed to be redone.
	- Participated in team-building exercises
	- Wrote up summary and goals for next week in weekly report
