Week of 6/27/16 (Week 5)

Summary:  I am disappointed in the amount I got done this week. The bugs
	  I ran into while making improvements to the schema and while
	  implementing the evaluation function ate up a lot of my time.
          I'm glad that I finished the schema and that I got started on
	  the evaluation function, but this falls short of the objectives
	  I outlined for myself last week. The more progress I make, the
	  more I see just what a big project this is, and the more I
	  worry about what I will actually be able to accomplish before
	  the fellowship ends. It isn't for lack of effort; it's just
	  that there's so much to do, and I often have doubts about
	  whether the tack I'm taking is the right one.

Goals:    Next week, I want to finish implementing the evaluation
	  function that finds a single best putative module in a
	  sequence. Once I have done that, I will implement a new
	  evaluation function to check for conservation of motifs
	  between single best putative modules across multiple
	  species. I don't imagine I will be able to accomplish
	  more than this, but after writing this evaluation
	  function, I will incorporate multiple putative modules
	  per species.


Monday
	- Finished implementing new representation schema. This is the
	  schema I discussed in last week's report that represents
	  instances of motifs along a given DNA strand as a pair
	  consisting of its location on the strand and its local
	  score. This stands in contrast to the earlier schema, which
	  had no means of representing an *instance* of a motif on a
	  strand --- only a single string of bases and an ID number.

Tuesday
	- Made further improvements to the schema, but came across a bug
	  early in the afternoon, which, despite my best efforts, I was
	  unable to fix. I will look at it again tomorrow.

Wednesday
	- Read and took notes on article on natural language processing. 
	- Fixed bug that I discovered yesterday.
	- Fixed several other bugs that cropped up while fixing original
          bug.
        - Attended biology research talks
        - Met with Clare and Victoria and got further direction on how
	  to spend the remaining three weeks.

Thursday
	- Brainstormed about scoring algorithms for evolving modules
	- Began implementing an evaluation function that identifies a
	  single best putative module in a sequence of DNA
	- Attended CS department talks

Friday
	- Continued working on the evaluation function I began
	  yesterday. Encountered an elusive bug that took me most of
	  the morning to find.
