Week of 6/13/16 (Week 3)

Summary:  The day-by-day breakdown of my activities this week is given
	  below, but I summarize the most important items here. After
	  finishing my 35 curations for DNAH5, I set to work modifying
	  the Genesis code to implement a basic evaluation function that
	  would compare two sets of motifs (pseudo-modules). This took
	  me longer than expected for reasons described below. Clare
	  then suggested I modify the code I wrote to compare a set of
	  motifs to a *sequence* of base pairs, rather than another
	  set of motifs. I started working on this, but then realized
	  that it would probably be best to read some of the existing
	  literature on computational tools for inferring candidate
	  CRMs (apart from GAMMI and GAMI-CRM), which I began doing on
	  Friday.

Goals:    Next week, I want to read at least two papers from the
	  candidate CRM inference literature and, simultaneously, work
	  on implementing my own. Specifically, I want the next version
	  of my code to be able to pick out candidate modules using
	  a window-based approach (and hopefully, in doing this, continue
	  to improve my facility with C). 

Monday:
	- Finished curations (lots of technical difficulties here with
	  uploading and such) for DNAH5
	- Attended data management workshop

Tuesday:
	- Read through Clare's Genesis code documentation, practiced
	  running the code.
	- Read through Lab 7 from Clare's Machine Learning class to get
	  some inspiration
	- Began implementing a *very* rudimentary module comparison
	  function

Wednesday:
	- Continued implementing my module comparison function and
	  trying to understand Genesis code
	- Listened to Stephen Houser speak

Thursday:
	- Finsihed implementing my module comparison function 
		- This took quite a bit longer than expected on
		  account of a) me not initially understanding the
		  objective, and b) a couple rather pernicious bugs
		  that took me a while to track down.
	- Spoke with Clare about how to proceed. We decided that it would
	  make the most sense to next adapt the module comparison (eval-
	  uation) function to perform a somewhat more difficult task.
	  Rather than look for conservation of motifs from one set of
	  motifs to another, we want the program to look for conservation
	  of motifs from a set to a genomic sequence. Started working on
	  implementing this.

Friday:
	- Continued implementing the features of the module comparison
	  function Clare and I discussed on Thursday.
	- Documented and polished up the first implementation of the
	  module comparison program
	- Attended biology departmental lunch/talk
	- Read some of the literature on existing methods for CRM inference.
	  Specifically, Su et al.'s "Assessing Computational Methods of Cis-
	  Regulatory Module Prediction."
	- Participated in teambuilding activities
