Week of 7/11/16 (Week 7)

Summary:  Early in the week, I finished writing my function to find 
	  the n best candidate CRMs in a single genomic sequence.
	  Following that, I wrote an evaluation function that worked
	  quite poorly. Its primary problem was that it was too
	  generous in what it was willing to call a "well-conserved
	  motif." I made several changes to the original function
	  to produce a second version, but it performed not much
	  better than the first. I devoted much of the second half
	  of the week to revising and expanding documentation of
	  my code, and to organizing the source files. Finally,
	  I wrote a function in the post-processor to output
	  all of the data my program needs to a text file (a
	  second function will have to be written in the program
	  for reading *from* that text file), but it has yet to be
	  tested.

Goals:    Most of this week will be dedicated to preparing for my
	  talk on Thursday. I will use the remainder of the time
	  to test my post-processor function and, once it's working,
	  to writing a function in the program to read from the
	  file that it outputs.


Monday
	- Fixed the problems with the findBestModules function.
	- Updated documentation for all files.
	- Worked on the evaluation function.

Tuesday
	- Finished implementing a preliminary evaluation function.
	  It performed very poorly. Went back to the drawing board
	  to come up with something better.
	- Implemented a second, somewhat more effective evaluation
	  function. This one still seems to have a lot of problems,
	  though. The best bit strings output by the GA seem to
	  contain more motifs than they should...
	- Looked at the post-processor code and Victoria's code to
	  try to determine what the best way would be to read in
	  the information I need for actual data. I saw files
	  in both places that I *could* use, but which would be
	  fairly tedious. I'm also considering writing a function
	  in the post-processor that would output a file with
	  everything I need, though I would have to understand the
	  pp code a bit better before doing that. Should talk with
	  Clare about this (and about the evaluation function)
	  tomorrow.

Wednesday
	- Wrote up some points to raise with Clare in our meeting
	  (hopefully at some point today) about the findBestModules
	  and evaluation functions.
	- Updated documentation for various functions.
	- Ran the evaluation function on random data sets of
	  various sizes. It still requires significant improvements.
	- Fixed a bug in the randomData function that was causing
	  motifs to be implanted in a genomic sequence on top of
	  one another.
	- Wrote a couple functions for printing out useful
	  information about modules.
	- Started writing an outline for my presentation next week.
	- Brainstormed improvements for the evaluation function,
	  but was having a hard time coming up with anything I
	  thought would be worth implementing.
	- Wrote a list of the current problems with my program,
	  a number of which I probably won't be able to fix before
	  the end of my fellowship. 
	- Attended bio talks.
	- Read through the post-processor source code to try to
	  understand it well enough to write a function that will
	  output the information I need to run my program.
	- Listened to Stephen Houser speak.

Thursday
	- Added a significant amount of documentation to my code,
	  and organized and deleted superfluous files in the
	  directory containing the code.
	- Wrote a function in the post-processor to output a file
	  containing all of the information I need for my module
	  inference program in an amenable format.
	- Caught up with Clare and discussed what should happen
	  in the remaining week of my fellowship.
	- Attended bioethics talks.
	- Attended CS talks.
	- Tried to do a test-run of the post-processor on the
	  PDGFRB data to check to make sure my function was
	  working correctly, but ran into difficulties. Will
	  do the run tomorrow.

Friday
	- Wrote up a to-do list of things that need to get done before
	  the end of next week.
	- Made extensive additions to the documentation.
