Week of 9/19/16
Will Gantt 


This week:
  
Read and took detailed notes on Chapter 2 of "Fundamental Concepts 
in Bioinformatics." This chapter was assigned earlier in the month as part
of our Bioinformatics Reading Group, but my copy of the text had not
arrived when we gathered to talk about it. The chapter's discussion of
alignment and scoring methods is particularly relevant to my project, and
I thought it important to get an overview of common approaches.

Most of my work this week was spent doing a literature search for the
survey paper I am writing (or, more accurately, finishing) on existing
methods of computational inference of CRMs. In my search, I was looking
only for papers published since 2013, as that was when Jeff Thompson was
working on his draft of the paper, which I am taking as my starting point.
I cast a fairly broad net in my search and have so far found 15 papers that
seemed to be of more than tangential relevance to the topic. Most recently,
I have been reading the abstracts and introductions of those papers to
determine just how relevant they actually are, and am taking notes to that
effect. Of the ones I've investigated, I would estimate that about half are
sufficiently relevant to the project to merit a citation in the paper.

Earlier in the week, I also set up a git repository to sync the work on
my laptop with the work I do on Bowdoin's servers.

On Friday, I met with Clare to talk about my poster for the President's
Summer Research Symposium and about narrowing in on a concise, layman-
friendly, elevator-speech description of my project. Since our meeting, I
have been writing up drafts of the various sections of the poster and have
been trying to decide what images to include.


Next week:

Right now, chiseling my elevator speech and finishing my poster for the
Research Symposium are my top priorities. I hope to have a complete rough
draft of the poster to send to Clare for feedback by early next week. When
the Copy and Print center reopens on Monday, I will call them to set up a
printing appointment.

I will finish taking notes on the papers I have gathered, and will likely
do a second search to see if I find any articles of interest that I may
have missed the first time around. Once I've gathered all the papers that
I think will be useful to me, I begin reading and summarizing them in
detail.

Clare and I have not set up an official meeting time (which is fine by me),
but she did suggest I come to the Wednesday Bioinformatics Group meeting
just to share what I have been working on, which I intend to do.

